The chapters until this point covered an approach to programming that is
often referred to as "structured programming" or "imperative
programming," wherein a program is considered a sequence of statements,
decisions, and loops. You can solve any programming problem with a
structured programming approach. However, in the last decades several
other programming "paradigms" have been coined up, which help designing
and implementing large-scale programs. One of the most successful
paradigms is "object orientation," and most modern programming languages
support the object oriented paradigm. Python is, in fact, an object
oriented language.

While object orientation tends to provide a natural way to look at
problems and solutions, designing an object oriented program can be
quite hard. The reason that it is hard, is that you have to really think
about your approach to a problem in all of its aspects, before you start
coding. For bigger problems, this can be daunting, especially when you
lack experience with programming. However, for bigger problems you have
to spend a lot of time designing your solution anyway, and an object
oriented approach may be quite helpful in creating it. Moreover, you
will find that most modules provide object oriented implementations, and
that object orientation can be helpful for many smaller problems too.

Since object orientation is a broad topic, several chapters will be
spent on it, of which this one is the first. It discusses the basics of
object orientation, leaving the more specialized (and powereful!)
aspects of object orientation for later chapters.
